---
layout: post
title: Humble Data Workshop at PyCon US 2021
author: Cheuk Ho
categories: event
tags:
- pycon us
- workshop
image: "/assets/img/cover/pyconus-21.png"

---
## We are back!

Following the success of the Beginners Data Workshop for Minorities (now known as Humble Data Workshop) last year at PyCon US following with more at PyCon Africa and PyData Global, we are glad that we will be back to PyCon US in 2021 online!

## Learn Python for data science at home in this free one day remote bootcamp

Would you like to learn to code but don’t know where to start? Taking your first steps in programming can seem like an impossible task so we’ve decided to put on a workshop to show 50 beginners how it can be done and share our passion for the world of data science!

>“We want our community to be more diverse: whoever you are, and whatever your background, we welcome you.” – Python Software Foundation’s Diversity Statement

We invite those from underrepresented groups in data to apply to join us on Thursday 13th May 2021 for the PyCon 2021 Humble Data Worksop. In this one day online workshop you will learn the basics of programming in Python, as well as how to use tools such as Jupyter Notebook to analyse data.

You will be learning in small groups, each with an assigned mentor to guide you through the workshop materials and answer your questions. This will all be facilitated online through the wonders of modern technology. You can expect plenty of exercises, quizzes and games, and inspiring talks from those who were once in your shoes. Key details as follows:

## When?

Thursday 13th May 2021 at 11:00am - 6:00pm EDT.

## Where? What do I need to bring?

Online! You will need a computer with reliable internet access. We also require all our attendees (mentors included) to be participants of PyCon US 2021. Please make sure you [get a ticket in advance](https://us.pycon.org/2021/registration/information/), if you require financial aid, please [apply here](https://us.pycon.org/2021/registration/financial-assistance/) **before 26th March 2021**. You will not be required to install anything.

Please feel free to [get in touch](/pages/contact.html) if you have questions or need further assistance.

## What do I need to know?

If you have zero programming experience, this workshop is made for you! If you already have some experience but are new to Python, we’ve got you covered too – the materials are designed for attendees to progress through the materials at their own rate.

## How is this free?

This workshop is being run by data scientists and software engineers dedicated to the spirit of open source. Every day we benefit from the hard work of others when we use free open tools. This is our way of giving back. We thank PyCon US and the Python Software Foundation for their support in facilitating this workshop.

**If you would like to hear about future workshops, please [apply here](https://forms.gle/Jrn9opda2rf7cbSa6):**

[Sign up to our mailing list](https://forms.gle/Jrn9opda2rf7cbSa6){: .btn}

**Deadline: 18th April 2021**

---

## UPDATE (11th April 2021)
Applications have now closed. If you would like to be the first to know about future workshops, please [sign up to our (very infrequent) mailing list here](https://forms.gle/mGophJ3TweRLHtd57).

We are looking for volunteers to help mentor the attendees! You don’t need to be an expert in programming or Python – we’re teaching the basics! You do need:

- Lots of patience, smiles and a friendly attitude.
- The ability to answer all sorts of questions in a beginner-friendly way (even if that means the explanation isn’t technically precise) throughout the duration of the workshop.
- Curiosity!

In return, you’ll meet interesting new people outside your usual developer group, eternal gratitude from your group of attendees, and you’ll be helping to break down stereotypes around what a developer “looks like”. Plus you can add all that on your CV!

[Click here if you would like to mentor for future Humble Data workshops](https://forms.gle/mGophJ3TweRLHtd57).
