---
layout: post
title: "Humble Data Workshop at PyCon Namibia 2023"
author: "Cheuk Ho"
categories: event
tags: [pycon na, workshop]
image: /assets/img/cover/pycon_na.jpg
---

Humble Data is back to where it started! Do you know that Humble Data is birth out of a workshop at PyCon Namibia in 2019? This year, in 2023, Humble Data is back to Windhoek, Namibia

## Learn Python for Data Science in this Beginners' Day Workshop

Would you like to learn to code but don’t know where to start? Taking your first steps in programming can seem like an impossible task so we’ve decided to put on a workshop to show 30 beginners how it can be done and share our passion for the world of data science!

“We want our community to be more diverse: whoever you are, and whatever your background, we welcome you.” – Python Software Foundation’s Diversity Statement

We invite those from under-represented groups in data to apply to join us on **Wednesday 22nd February 2023** for the PyCon Namibia - Humble Data Workshop. In this workshop, you will learn the basics of programming in Python, as well as how to use tools such as Jupyter Notebook to analyse data.

You will be learning in small groups, each with an assigned mentor to guide you through the workshop materials and answer your questions. This will all be facilitated online through the wonders of modern technology. You can expect plenty of exercises, quizzes and games, and inspiring talks from those who were once in your shoes.

## WHO CAN JOIN?
Anyone who attended the conference can walk in.

## WHAT DO I NEED TO BRING?
You will need a computer. There may be a setup party in advance, details to be announced. Our mentors can help you set up on the day or at the setup party.

## WHAT DO I NEED TO KNOW?
If you have zero programming experience, this workshop is made for you! If you already have some experience but are new to Python, we’ve got you covered too – the materials are designed for attendees to progress through the materials at their own rate.

## HOW IS THIS POSSIBLE?
This workshop is being run by data scientists and software engineers dedicated to the spirit of open source. Every day we benefit from the hard work of others when we use free open tools. This is our way of giving back.
