---
layout: post
title: "Humble Data Workshop at PyCon IT 2024"
author: "Jodie Burchell"
categories: event
tags: [pycon, workshop]
image: /assets/img/cover/pyconit.jpg
---

## Humble Data at PyCon Italia

Learn Python for Data Science in this Beginners’ Day Workshop
Would you like to learn to code but don’t know where to start? Taking your first steps in programming can seem like an impossible task, so we’ve decided to put on a workshop to show beginners how it can be done and share our passion for the world of data science!

“We want our community to be more diverse: whoever you are, and whatever your background, we welcome you.” – Python Software Foundation’s Diversity Statement

We invite those from under-represented groups in data to [apply](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSflhtsv0Ei1xm73DMoLL2vDpi4AwgrTtDScNk3aH4L3KA1OZg/viewform) to join us at PyData Italia's (22-25th May, 2024) [Humble Data Workshop](https://2024.pycon.it/en/event/humble-data). In this workshop, you will learn the basics of programming in Python, as well as how to use tools such as Jupyter Notebook to analyse data.

You will be learning in small groups, each with an assigned mentor to guide you through the workshop materials and answer your questions. This will all be facilitated online through the wonders of modern technology. You can expect plenty of exercises, quizzes and games, and inspiring talks from those who were once in your shoes.

[Apply to participate in the workshop](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSflhtsv0Ei1xm73DMoLL2vDpi4AwgrTtDScNk3aH4L3KA1OZg/viewform){: .btn}

**Applications close on April 10th, 2024.**

## FAQ

**WHEN AND WHERE IS THE WORKSHOP?**

This event is being held in person at the [Grand Hotel Mediterraneo](https://www.google.com/maps/place/FH55+Grand+Hotel+Mediterraneo/@43.7661531,11.2696057,17z/data=!3m2!4b1!5s0x132a540a8773df87:0xe2edcff48d9e5af4!4m9!3m8!1s0x132a540a7e35d65b:0x3ede620e40acc1cc!5m2!4m1!1i2!8m2!3d43.7661493!4d11.2721806!16s%2Fg%2F1tf4b7wr?entry=tts) in Florence on May 22nd, between 10 am and 6 pm. This is the same location as PyCon Italia. Please see [this link](https://2024.pycon.it/en/event/humble-data) for more details.  

**WHO CAN JOIN?**

Anyone who is attending the conference - [PyData Italia](https://2024.pycon.it/en). Childcare would also be available for attendees at the conference. Save your spot with [this form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSc0Sgn-QpnweoYSS-TjHdOy57B71ybv4Fy4hY-CAvqyOa-b7A/viewform).

**WHAT DO I NEED TO BRING?**

You will need a computer with access to the internet.

**WHAT DO I NEED TO KNOW?**

If you have zero programming experience, this workshop is made for you! If you already have some experience but are new to Python, we’ve got you covered too – the materials are designed for attendees to progress through the materials at their own rate.

**HOW IS THIS POSSIBLE?**

This workshop is being run by data scientists and software engineers dedicated to the spirit of open source. Every day we benefit from the hard work of others when we use free open tools. This is our way of giving back.

We'd also like to thank the generous support of PyCon Italia in making this workshop happen.

### Calling for mentors

We wish to be able to run a workshop with as many participants as we can accommodate online, however, we also need a lot of mentors to help out. Being a mentor not only help you to familiarise yourself with your knowledge in data science, it also gives you a good vibe afterwards. If you have the skill to share, we are happy to welcome you to our Humble Data family.

Please be aware that mentors also need to be participants of the conference - [PyData Italia](https://2024.pycon.it/en).

Please let us know you would like to be a mentor using [this form](https://forms.gle/s7ZBzxjmL1ysp6wk9).

[Apply to be a mentor in the workshop](https://forms.gle/s7ZBzxjmL1ysp6wk9){: .btn}

### Why Humble Data?

There are many reasons for people to push aside their hopes of a tech career, we’re here to listen, to understand what makes it difficult and to lower that threshold bit by bit. It’s daunting to enter a world of seemingly full of professionals who are already skilled, who have already proven their competence. We want to show our participants that there’s more than meets the eye.

There’s a generosity that needs to be promoted more, we’ve seen that directly from the conference partners we collaborate with and the mentors giving their time to welcome people into this community. We’re here to spread that message and let people know that better diversity and inclusivity in tech can happen if we organise our efforts in the right way.

And what better way to do this than to start using data well? Use data in a way that represents all of us. Use data for good, follow best practices, and educate everyone how powerful it can be in the right hands. We can all make a difference by understanding data and even more when we can work with it. Which is why we should stay humble around data.
