---
layout: post
title: "Humble Data Workshop in Amsterdam"
author: "Jodie Burchell"
categories: event
tags: [workshop]
image: /assets/img/cover/jetbrains_office_amsterdam_2025.jpg
---

## Humble Data at PyData Amsterdam

We're holding a Humble Data Workshop on the evening of *September 23rd* in Amsterdam, Netherlands.

### Learn Python for Data Science in our workshop for complete beginners
Would you like to learn to code but don’t know where to start? Taking your first steps in programming can seem like an impossible task, so we've created a workshop to show beginners how it can be done and share our passion for the world of data science!

“We want our community to be more diverse: whoever you are, and whatever your background, we welcome you.” – Python Software Foundation’s Diversity Statement

We invite those from underrepresented groups in data to apply to join us at our Humble Data workshop, a free event **on the evening of September 23rd, 2025**.

In this workshop, you will learn the basics of programming in Python, as well as how to use tools such as Jupyter notebooks and pandas to analyse data.

You will be learning in small groups, each with an assigned mentor to guide you through the workshop materials and answer your questions. You can expect plenty of exercises, as well as inspiring discussions with those who were once in your shoes.

[Apply to join as learner](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdkSEgcKDx2gNlvvXQxxbKR0dAKXRV7F8RmvxytFRFJ7dYChA/viewform?usp=dialog){: .btn} [Apply to join as a mentor](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdkSEgcKDx2gNlvvXQxxbKR0dAKXRV7F8RmvxytFRFJ7dYChA/viewform?usp=dialog){: .btn}

### Schedule
The workshop will happen on September 23rd, 2025 at the [JetBrains Terrace Tower office](https://www.jetbrains.com/company/contacts/amsterdam/), at Gelrestraat 16, 1079 MZ Amsterdam. Here is what we are planning for the evening:
* 17:30 Welcome and introduction to the workshop
* 18:00 Start working through the materials with mentor support
* 19:00 Break for dinner (food will be provided)
* 19:30 Continue working through the materials
* 21:00 Closing

## FAQ

**WHO CAN JOIN?**

Anyone! We do have limited spots, so we will prioritise applicants from underrepresented groups in tech.

**WHAT DO I NEED TO BRING?**

You will need a computer which is able to connect to the internet.

**WHAT DO I NEED TO KNOW?**

If you have zero programming experience, this workshop is made for you! If you already have some experience but are new to Python, we’ve got you covered too – the materials are designed for attendees to progress through the materials at their own pace.

**HOW IS THIS POSSIBLE?**

This workshop is being run by data scientists and software engineers dedicated to the spirit of open source. Every day we benefit from the hard work of others when we use free open tools. This is our way of giving back.

### Why Humble Data?

There are many reasons for people to push aside their hopes of a tech career, we’re here to listen, to understand what makes it difficult, and to lower that threshold bit by bit. It’s daunting to enter a world of seemingly full of professionals who are already skilled, who have already proven their competence. We want to show our participants that there’s more than meets the eye.

There’s a generosity that needs to be promoted more, we’ve seen that directly from the conference partners we collaborate with and the mentors giving their time to welcome people into this community. We’re here to spread that message and let people know that better diversity and inclusivity in tech can happen if we organise our efforts in the right way.

And what better way to do this than to start using data well? Use data in a way that represents all of us. Use data for good, follow best practices, and educate everyone how powerful it can be in the right hands. We can all make a difference by understanding data and even more when we can work with it. Which is why we should stay humble around data.

## And a huge thank you!

We've very grateful to JetBrains for their sponsorship of this event, as well as providing the venue. We're also thankful to PyLadies Amsterdam for their support of this event.

---

Cover Image: Source <a href="https://www.pexels.com/photo/photo-of-boats-parked-on-river-2031706/">Pexels</a>
