---
layout: post
title: "Humble Data Workshop at PyCon Italia 2025"
author: "Laís Carvalho"
categories: event
tags: [pycon, workshop]
image: /assets/img/cover/pyconitalia_25.jpg
---

## Humble Data at PyCon Italia

Wednesday, 28 May 2025 in Bologna, Italy

### Learn Python for Data Science in this Beginners’ Day Workshop
Would you like to learn to code but don’t know where to start? Taking your first steps in programming can seem like an impossible task, so we’ve decided to put on a workshop to show beginners how it can be done and share our passion for the world of data science!

“We want our community to be more diverse: whoever you are, and whatever your background, we welcome you.” – Python Software Foundation’s Diversity Statement

We invite those from under-represented groups in data to apply to join us at our Humble Data workshop, a free event associated **with PyCon Italia in Bologna on Wednesday, 28 May 2025**.

In this workshop, you will learn the basics of programming in Python, as well as how to use tools such as Jupyter notebooks to analyse data. **Please note that you do _not_ need a ticket for the conference to attend this event!**

You will be learning in small groups, each with an assigned mentor to guide you through the workshop materials and answer your questions. You can expect plenty of exercises, as well as inspiring talks from those who were once in your shoes.

[Apply to join as learner](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSebavv8WdMfzpBJnQES4STrAfOATb809Rtcl60awk16_vE0QA/viewform){: .btn} [Apply to join as a mentor](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSf7q2yJmNlK2g6hG0A3dGm2MFMvIzoKr81ezuuUikLZ_CEmDQ/viewform){: .btn}

## FAQ

**WHEN AND WHERE IS THE WORKSHOP?**

This event is being held in person at the **Savoia Hotel Regency - Bologna** on **Wednesday, 28 May 2025**. For further information, please keep an eye on [PyCon Italia's website](https://2025.pycon.it/en/event/humble-data).  

**WHO CAN JOIN?**

Anyone! While we're working with the organisers of PyCon Italia to host Humble Data, you will **not** need a ticket for the conference to attend this workshop. 

We do have limited spots, so we will prioritise applicants from underrepresented groups in tech. Applications close on **March 31st, 2025**, and successful applicants will be informed by April 13th.

**WHAT DO I NEED TO BRING?**

You will need a computer which is able to connect to the internet.

**WHAT DO I NEED TO KNOW?**

If you have zero programming experience, this workshop is made for you! If you already have some experience but are new to Python, we’ve got you covered too – the materials are designed for attendees to progress through the materials at their own rate.

**HOW IS THIS POSSIBLE?**

This workshop is being run by data scientists and software engineers dedicated to the spirit of open source. Every day we benefit from the hard work of others when we use free open tools. This is our way of giving back.

### Why Humble Data?

There are many reasons for people to push aside their hopes of a tech career, we’re here to listen, to understand what makes it difficult and to lower that threshold bit by bit. It’s daunting to enter a world of seemingly full of professionals who are already skilled, who have already proven their competence. We want to show our participants that there’s more than meets the eye.

There’s a generosity that needs to be promoted more, we’ve seen that directly from the conference partners we collaborate with and the mentors giving their time to welcome people into this community. We’re here to spread that message and let people know that better diversity and inclusivity in tech can happen if we organise our efforts in the right way.

And what better way to do this than to start using data well? Use data in a way that represents all of us. Use data for good, follow best practices, and educate everyone how powerful it can be in the right hands. We can all make a difference by understanding data and even more when we can work with it. Which is why we should stay humble around data.

## And a huge thank you!

We've very grateful to PyCon Italia for all of their help with the logistics and organistaion of this event. Their hard work helps HumbleData to be a success! 

---

Cover Image: Photo by <a href="https://unsplash.com/@_th4d_?utm_content=creditCopyText&utm_medium=referral&utm_source=unsplash">Thaddaeus Lim</a> on <a href="https://unsplash.com/photos/commercial-structures-during-daytime-_EKayVii82I?utm_content=creditCopyText&utm_medium=referral&utm_source=unsplash">Unsplash</a>
      
