---
layout: post
title: "Humble Data Workshop at PyCon Greece 2025"
author: "Laís Carvalho"
categories: event
tags: [pycon, workshop]
image: /assets/img/cover/pycongr_2025.jpg
---

## Humble Data at PyCon Greece

Friday, 29 August 2025 in Athens, Greece

### Learn Python for Data Science in this Beginners’ Day Workshop
Would you like to learn to code but don’t know where to start? Taking your first steps in programming can seem like an impossible task, so we’ve decided to put on a workshop to show beginners how it can be done and share our passion for the world of data science!

“We want our community to be more diverse: whoever you are, and whatever your background, we welcome you.” – Python Software Foundation’s Diversity Statement

We invite those from under-represented groups in society to apply to join us at our Humble Data workshop, a free event associated **with PyCon Greece in Athens on Friday, 29th August 2025**.

In this workshop, you will learn the basics of programming in Python, as well as how to use tools such as Jupyter notebooks to analyse data. **Please note: by joining Humble Data, you will receive a free ticket for both days of the conference!**

You will be learning in small groups, each with an assigned mentor to guide you through the workshop materials and answer your questions. You can expect plenty of exercises, as well as inspiring talks from those who were once in your shoes.

[Apply to join!](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfqNQDifGmOoWKtjlknftBlhkeVlSDDl375iawC7B5lvQ1uXA/viewform?usp=sharing&ouid=115998412224390085455){: .btn}

### Schedule
The workshop will happen on August 29th 2025 at the [Technopolis City of Athens](https://2025.pycon.gr/en/attend/venue-transportation/). Here is what we are planning for the day:
* 11:35 Welcome and get ready to start!
* 11:45 Intro “What is Humble Data?”
* 12:00 Let’s get started!
* 13:15 Lunch break
* 14:15 Let’s keep going!
* 15:15 How to follow-up and networking
* 15:30 End of workshop

## FAQ

**WHEN AND WHERE IS THE WORKSHOP?**

This event is being held in person at the **Technopolis - City of Athens** on **Friday, 29th August 2025**. For further information, please keep an eye on [PyCon Greece's website](https://2025.pycon.gr/en/program/).  #todo: add link to event page

**WHO CAN JOIN?**

Anyone! This workshop is designed for complete beginners and anyone curious about data science. Also, **all workshop participants receive a complimentary 2-day PyCon Greece conference pass** – giving you access to the entire conference! Two days of community, networking opportunities, snacks and loads of Python! 

We do have limited spots, so we will prioritise applicants from underrepresented groups in tech. Applications close on **August 8th 2025**, and successful applicants will be informed by August 15th.

**WHAT DO I NEED TO BRING?**

You will need a computer which is able to connect to the internet.

**WHAT DO I NEED TO KNOW?**

If you have zero programming experience, this workshop is made for you! If you already have some experience but are new to Python, we’ve got you covered too – the materials are designed for attendees to progress through the materials at their own rate.

**HOW IS THIS POSSIBLE?**

This workshop is being run by data scientists and software engineers dedicated to the spirit of open source. Every day we benefit from the hard work of others when we use free open tools. This is our way of giving back.

### Why Humble Data?

There are many reasons for people to push aside their hopes of a tech career, we’re here to listen, to understand what makes it difficult and to lower that threshold bit by bit. It’s daunting to enter a world of seemingly full of professionals who are already skilled, who have already proven their competence. We want to show our participants that there’s more than meets the eye.

There’s a generosity that needs to be promoted more, we’ve seen that directly from the conference partners we collaborate with and the mentors giving their time to welcome people into this community. We’re here to spread that message and let people know that better diversity and inclusivity in tech can happen if we organise our efforts in the right way.

And what better way to do this than to start using data well? Use data in a way that represents all of us. Use data for good, follow best practices, and educate everyone how powerful it can be in the right hands. We can all make a difference by understanding data and even more when we can work with it. Which is why we should stay humble around data.

## And a huge thank you!

We've very grateful to PyCon Greece for all of their help with the logistics and organistaion of this event. Their hard work helps HumbleData be a success! 

---
